
ELEMENTS OF A BACKGROUND
This section explains the components of a background.

SKILL PROFICIENCES
Each background gives you proficiency in two skills. If your
character would already gain the same skill proficiency
from their class, lineage, or heritage features, you can
choose a different skill proficiency instead.

ADDITIONAL PROFICIENCES OR
LANGUAGES
Most backgrounds grant proficiency with one or more
tools (see Tools in Chapter 5) or vehicles, or allow a
character to learn additional languages.

EQUIPMENT
Each background provides a package of starting equipment.

TALENT
Each background allows a character to choose one talent
from a few options. These options are typically a mix from
different talent lists, so they allow you to grab a talent your
class might not have access to in the future.

PLAYER'S GUIDE

ADVENTURING MOTIVATION
A background contains suggested motivations to help
inform your reasons for becoming an adventurer. You can
roll to determine it randomly, pick one off the list, or use
them as inspiration for creating your own motivation.

ADHERENT
Before you began adventuring, you committed yourself
to a faith, belief, or cause. The exacting tasks required of
this commitment—daily prayers, holy rites, or cryptic
ceremonies—instilled in you a sense of duty and purpose.
Perhaps you were a hopeful inductee into the war god’s
clergy, a priest excommunicated from a fiend-worshipping
sect, or a lifelong member of a secret society with global
reach. In any case, you still carry the teachings and
traditions of your devotion.
Skill Proficiencies: Choose two from History,
Investigation, Religion, or Persuasion.
Additional Proficiencies: Gain proficiency with artist’s
tools and an additional tool of your choice.
Equipment: A prayer book or ceremonial dagger, a holy
symbol, a block of fragrant incense, vestments, a set of
common clothes, and a pouch containing 10 gp.

TALENT
You devoted yourself to an array of highly specific tasks
and teachings known only to your order, each of which
demanded mental and emotional precision. Choose a
talent from this list to represent your experience: Field
Medic, Mental Fortitude, or Ritualist.

ADVENTURING MOTIVATION

d8 ADVENTURING MOTIVATION
1 I can test the limits of my devotion out in the wider world through adventuring.
2 Adventuring allows me to learn about and report on other religions and orders.
3 Adventuring frees me to practice more unorthodox methods of worship.
4 I may find others sworn to my order when I am out adventuring.
5 Encountering new people while adventuring lets me share my faith with heretics, pagans, and the uninitiated.
6 When I triumph through adventuring, I will bring glory and notoriety to my order.
7 Adventuring furnishes me with the tithe my order deserves.
8 Staying on the move keeps me from being dragged back to the order from which I narrowly escaped.


Many adherents don’t stray far from the object of their
devotion. Those who roam often do so for reasons specific
to their order. When you begin your adventures, consider
what tempted—or perhaps called—your character to step
into the unknown.

ARTIST
You doggedly practiced artistic pursuits before taking
up the adventuring life. Countless hours of practice,
reflection, and expression altered the way you see the
world, and demand for your artistic expression grew.
Perhaps you began an acrobat honing your body, a shadow
puppeteer hungry for monstrous material, a dour thespian
in search of a patron to admire your dark performances,
or a bubbly singer enraptured by the applause of strangers.
No matter what form your expression has taken, you
still thrive where an audience waits to be entertained,
frightened, or inspired.
Skill Proficiencies: Choose two from Acrobatics, Insight,
Performance, or Persuasion.
Additional Proficiencies: Learn one additional language
of your choice and gain proficiency with one tool
representative of your artistic pursuits.
Equipment: A musical instrument or tool you are
proficient with, a steel mirror, a set of fine clothes, an ink
pen and bottle of ink, and a coin purse containing 4 gp.


d10 ARTISTIC EXPRESSION

1 Painting
2 Sculpture
3 Poetry
4 Storytelling
5 Acting
6 Dancing
7 Juggling
8 Puppetry
9 Music
10 Gymnastics

TALENT
You have developed the skills and talents required to
delight the masses and capture the imaginations of even
nobility. Choose a talent from this list to represent your
experience: Quick, Scrutinous, or Trade Skills.

ADVENTURING MOTIVATION
Artists are risk takers at heart. Though some enjoy a quiet
life of self-discovery, many are driven to seek unknown
experiences with new audiences, chasing perfection of
their craft. Contemplate why your character decided—or
was forced—to forgo comfort and choose a path that may
lead anywhere.
ADVENTURING MOTIVATION

d8 ADVENTURING MOTIVATION

1 Adventuring secures my fortune while my art secures my reputation.
2 Adventuring inspires me by allowing me to meet new people and experience new places.
3 The thrills and terror of adventuring make me far more comfortable in front of even hostile crowds.
4 Adventuring develops skills for me to use when entertaining a crowd.
5 Adventuring puts me out of reach of the patron I’ve neglected.
6 My mentor was an adventurer. If their travels made them a master, it may work for me as well!
7 Adventuring is how I will find someone who appreciates my art as much as it deserves.
8 Tales of heroism born from adventuring will make my fans hungry for more of my art.

COURTIER

You spent a great deal of time in a royal court. Lessons
of decorum and expectations of duty and honor granted
expert understanding of the world and your place within it,
as well as the station and manner of others.
Perhaps you were a dignitary from a far-off land, a master
of spies working at the queen’s bidding, a constable
tasked with capturing fugitives, or a noble stricken with
wanderlust. Regardless of your courtly appointment, your
life was one of leadership, service, or privilege, driven by
the expectations of others and your own ambitions. You
still carry these with you.


Skill Proficiencies: Choose two from History, Religion,
Insight, or Deception.
Additional Proficiencies: Learn one additional language
of your choice and gain proficiency with either artist’s
tools or navigator’s tools and a musical instrument of
your choice.
Equipment: A writ of nobility or patronage from a
noble, signet ring, a set of fine clothes, and a coin purse
containing 12 gp.



TALENT
You have intimate knowledge of people and experience
with courtly ceremony and propriety. Choose a talent
from this list to represent your experience: Combat
Conditioning, Mental Fortitude, or Polyglot.

ADVENTURING MOTIVATION
Courtiers travel for any number of purposes, but most
return to court as quickly as possible. When you begin your
adventures, consider why your character chose—or was
made to—eschew the courtly life.

ADVENTURING MOTIVATION

d8 ADVENTURING MOTIVATION
1 Adventuring allows me to experience the world firsthand, without court drama.
2 Adventuring is how I will attain glory and stand apart from others of my station.
3 Adventuring is a means to amass power and influence, which I’ll use to found my own kingdom.
4 I have been cast out from royal court in disgrace.  Adventuring is my best way to find redemption.
5 Danger is my obsession, and adventure is how I’ll slake my thirst for it.
6 I have been ordered to adventure by royal decree, and so I shall, until summoned back to court.
7 Through adventuring, I shall forge new alliances for the benefit of the realm.
8 I wish to destroy another member of the court—perhaps adventuring will provide me the means to do so.



CRIMINAL
You were a cutpurse, grifter, thief, or assassin. Surviving in
the criminal underworld while plying your nefarious trade
taught you patience, resourcefulness, and careful planning.
Perhaps you were a pickpocket jailed one too many times,
a con artist hoping to fleece nobles out of their ill-gotten
gains, or an assassin ready to turn over a new leaf after
being left for dead. Regardless, a life of crime has left you
tied to society’s underbelly.

Skill Proficiencies: Choose two from Stealth,
Investigation, Insight, or Deception.
Additional Proficiencies: You know Thieves’ Cant. If you
already know this language, you learn a different language
of your choice. Gain proficiency with a tool and a vehicle.
Equipment: Five pieces of chalk, a grappling hook, a
set of dark traveler’s clothes or a costume, and a pouch
containing 10 gp.

TALENT
You have eked out a living on the fringes of lawful society.
Choose a talent from this list to represent your experience:
Covert, Scrutinous, or Touch of Luck.

SECRET
Criminals collect secrets as often as coin during their life
of crime. Roll on the Criminal Secret table to determine
such a secret, choose one, or create your own. This secret is
known only to your closest allies and fiercest enemies at the
start of your adventuring career.

CRIMINAL SECRET

d12 SECRET
1 I inherited a massive fortune but lost it all.
2 My closest friend wants me dead, and I deserve it.
3 I am not who I claim to be. I borrowed this life from a dying criminal.
4 I have a rare terminal illness, and it’s making me reckless.
5 My loving family regularly sends me messages begging me to come home.
6 I only pretend to be a criminal to make life exciting.
7 I sometimes make mistakes on purpose just so things will turn violent.
8 I am terrified of the person I was becoming and pray that I can still change.
9 I used to be a royal spy until my sovereign betrayed me.
10 I plan to manipulate adventurers who trust me into destroying the enemies of my guild.
11 My family doesn't know I am a criminal, and I’ll kill to keep that secret.
12 I am a celebrity in some parts of the world.


ADVENTURING MOTIVATION

Most criminals are content with life in a guild or gang,
trusting a select few and staying near their next mark. At the
start of your adventuring career, decide what—or who—
made your character step away to face a less certain life.

d8 ADVENTURING MOTIVATION

1 The bounty on my head is too high! I adventure to keep ahead of those who seek to claim it.
2 An adventurer got me out of prison, and I’ll never go back.
3 My allies turned on me and left me for dead. Adventuring will help me build a new life.
4 Adventuring is easy coin, nothing more.
5 Adventuring tests the limits of my skills, something crime hasn’t done in years.
6 I’ve done too many dark things to ever sleep well, but adventuring might help me make amends.
7 It’s time to dismantle the criminal guild I helped create, and adventuring will give me the power to do so.
8 A dogged constable is after me, but even they won’t go where adventuring will take me.


HOMESTEADER
You forged a livelihood in the places between civilization
and the unknown hinterlands. The demands of frontier life
calloused you, but you understand the wilderness and your
place in it.
Perhaps you were a weather-beaten frontiersman done
with the lumber camps behind, a hermit who wished to quit
your seclusion, or a young hunter ready to test your mettle
on more dangerous prey. No matter, you forged your own
path in a harsh wilderness, and those skills will only help
you forge ahead.
Skill Proficiencies: Survival and choose one from
Athletics, Animal Handling, or Intimidation.
Additional Proficiencies: Gain proficiency with either
herbalism tools or navigator’s tools.
Equipment: A hunting trap, fishing tackle, a razor-sharp
skinning knife, a canvas hammock, a set of heavy traveler’s
clothes, and a pouch containing 8 gp worth of goldcrusted quartz.

TALENT
You have pitted yourself against danger in far-flung
places few have ever seen. Choose a talent from this list to
represent your experience: Aware, Dungeoneer,
or Far Traveler.


ADVENTURING MOTIVATION
Most homesteaders have already answered their call to
adventure. It led them into the wilds in the first place.
When you begin your adventures, consider what tempted—
or forced—your character to step away from their previous
life in exchange for another grand adventure.

d8 ADVENTURING MOTIVATION
1 Adventuring will give me new challenges to overcome without the expectation of settling down.
2 I’ve been alone for too long. Adventuring will allow me to find companionship.
3 My name is all I have, and adventuring will help it grow into something to be proud of.
4 Adventuring will take me to exotic places where I may start my next, or last, expedition.
5 Hopefully adventuring will give me enough coin to buy back the camp that was stolen from me.
6 Settling down didn’t work for me, so adventuring is how I find thrills.
7 I accompany travelers on their adventure for pay—promises, gold, or favors.
8 I’ve yet to find anyone as skilled and reliable in the wilds as I am, but adventuring may change that.


MAKER
You pursued a unique, often profitable craft and
became an expert. Those with an eye for quality might
seek your work out among hundreds of other crafters.
Perhaps you were the disgraced scion of
an illustrious family of jewelers, a famous
swordsmith ready to test your finest work,
or a toy maker who manufactured clockwork
monstrosities. No matter what your artform,
you worked so fervently that it stays a part of
you wherever you go.
Skill Proficiencies: Investigation and one skill
of your choice from the following: History,
Performance, or Sleight of Hand.
Additional Proficiencies: Gain proficiency
with one tool. Double your PB when you make a
check using that tool.
Equipment: A tool you are proficient with; a wax seal,
ink stamp, or chisel of your personal emblem; a set of
traveler’s clothes, and a pouch containing 10 gp worth of
gold shavings or silver dust.

TALENT
You have invested time in perfecting a singular craft,
securing patronage, and learning from trial and error or
under the watchful guidance of a master craftsperson.
Choose a talent from this list to represent your experience:
Artillerist, School Specialization, or Trade Skills.

ADVENTURING MOTIVATION
Rare is the maker who abandons their shop and supplies
in favor of the long road. When you begin your adventures,
decide why your character chose—or was driven—to leave
their workshop, peers, and accustomed surroundings to
venture into the unknown.

d8 ADVENTURING MOTIVATION
1 I seek inspiration so divine or perilous that only adventuring may provide it.
2 Adventuring allows me to test my creations to the fullest.
3 Adventuring aids me in discovering rare and otherwise unknown ingredients.
4 Jealousy drove my peers to chase me from my workshop, but adventuring may secure my fortune once again.
5 Adventuring is how I make the coin required to fund my artifice to its fullest.
6 I have yet to find an equal in my craft, and I hope that in adventuring one will cross my path.
7 Adventuring is the only way to grow my fame, as my craft is too unique or obscure for common minds.
8 Adventuring is the only way I might find someone worthy of possessing my greatest work.

OUTCAST
You spent your life surviving on scraps and taking what
you could. Living on the streets sometimes left you on the
wrong side of the law, but you were instilled with skills to
survive, overcome, and prosper.
Perhaps you were an urchin chased from your stomping
grounds, a pickpocket who tried to make ends meet,
or a bandit who left the life, wanting to make amends.
Whatever your circumstances, the thrills and misfortunes
of life outside polite society will never leave you.
Skill Proficiencies: Choose two from Deception, Insight,
Sleight of Hand, or Stealth.
Additional Proficiencies: You gain proficiency with one
type of game set and one of the following: charlatan’s tools,
herbalism tools, or thieves’ tools.
Equipment: A dark cloak and a set of dark, common
clothes, a silver coin given to you by a kind stranger, and a
pouch containing 10 gp.

TALENT
You developed skills and physical abilities to survive on
the streets. Choose a talent from this list to represent your
experience: Aware, Opportunist, or Quick.

ADVENTURING MOTIVATION

Outcasts like you are familiar with the hardships
adventurers face, but think about how your own history of
hardship shapes your relationships and reasons to travel
to unfamiliar places. When you begin your adventures,
consider why your character chose—or was forced—to
leave an unglamorous, but safe routine for a life of
exploration and bravura.

ADVENTURING MOTIVATION

d8 ADVENTURING MOTIVATION
1 Adventuring is a way to stay ahead of the law, I hope.
2 Adventuring is how I’ll finally earn (or seize) my fortune.
3 I will amass power and influence by adventuring before I return home.
4 Adventuring is how I’ll make amends for a life of wrongdoing.
5 I can master my skills through adventuring without fear of ending up in a cell.
6 Adventuring will give me the clout to make a name for myself that will be feared and respected.
7 I’ll track down the person who ruined my life while I’m adventuring.
8 Adventuring is a way to find a crew I can trust.


RUSTIC
You spent most of your life as no one of consequence. Years
of hard work gave you an unshakeable resolve, but your
past is no mystery and affords you no grand understanding
of the world.
Perhaps you were the blacksmith’s child who preferred
to wear the armor, a shepherd who watched her flock
devoured by ogres, or an elderly dwarf miner who wanted
to see the world before the end. Wherever you come from,
whoever you were, even a perilous future seems better than
the doldrums of your past.
Skill Proficiencies: Choose two from Athletics,
Acrobatics, Investigation, or Medicine.
Additional Proficiencies: Gain proficiency with vehicles
(land) and one of the following: a martial weapon, a
musical instrument, a tool, or one type of armor.
Equipment: A backpack, a bedroll, a warm blanket woven
by a friend or family member, three candles, a set of
traveler’s clothes, and a pouch containing 20 sp.


TALENT
You spent your life working to put food on the table and
squeeze out a better living than those who came before you.
Choose a talent from this list to represent your experience:
Comrade, Hand to Hand, or Physical Fortitude.

ADVENTURING MOTIVATION
Most commoners accept their lot in life, despite the tedium.
When you begin your adventures, determine why your
character took the opportunity to—happily or regrettably—
leave their fellows behind for a life of uncertainty.
ADVENTURING MOTIVATION

d8 ADVENTURING MOTIVATION

1 Adventuring gives me thrills I never experienced back home.
2 Adventuring supplies coin that will secure a better future—if not for me, for my family.
3 I’d rather risk my life adventuring than waste it in obscurity.
4 Adventuring will give me such stories to tell around the fire when it’s time to settle down again.
5 I can’t face my friends after what I did—not until I make a name for myself through adventuring.
6 Maybe adventuring can teach me the skills I need to become a noble.
7 I was blamed for the ill fate that befell my home. Maybe by adventuring, I can make things right.
8 An adventurer saved my life, and I won't rest until I do the same for others.


SCHOLAR
You spent years researching a branch of study. Time spent
in academic pursuits honed your mind, allowing you to
view the world through an intellectual lens afforded to few.
Perhaps you were only recently a student eager to learn
outside the classroom, a teacher who retired but wasn’t
ready to stop hands-on learning, or a discredited researcher
expelled but driven to prove your theories. Regardless,
your way has always been lit by your keen mind, and you
retain a desire to know more.
Skill Proficiencies: Choose two from Arcana, History,
Nature, or Religion.
Additional Proficiencies: Learn two additional languages
of your choice or gain proficiency with a tool or vehicle
relevant to your field of study.
Equipment: A bottle of ink, a quill, a small knife, a
reference book on a highly specific subject, a set of
common clothes, and a pouch containing 10 gp.




TALENT
You have spent time researching particular academic
subjects at an institute of learning or under a knowledgeable
teacher. Choose a talent from this list to represent your
experience: Polyglot, Ritualist, or School Specialization.

ADVENTURING MOTIVATION
Most scholars spend their lives cloistered within libraries,
laboratories, and workshops, immersed in academia. When
you begin your adventures, consider why your character
chose—or was driven—to leave a traditional lifestyle and
brave the unknown.
ADVENTURING MOTIVATION

d8 ADVENTURING MOTIVATION

1 The coin I need for my research comes from adventuring.
2 Adventuring provides valuable field experience relevant to my study.
3 I will prove those fools wrong with my discoveries made through adventuring.
4 Adventuring pays the bills until I can prove the validity of my theories.
5 I can uncover lost or forbidden knowledge by adventuring for it. No institution can provide that!
6 Adventuring is the best way to collect data for my patron or employer.
7 Adventuring will lead me to the answers I desperately seek.
8 Adventuring is a way to escape a life of academia I never wanted.

SOLDIER
You spent a significant amount of time risking your life
to defend others. You survived through rigorous training,
discipline, and sacrificing comforts that most people take
for granted.
Perhaps you were a veteran who washed out, a deserter
who ran from the atrocities of war, or a fresh-faced patriot
who went looking for new ways to fight for your cause.
Whatever course you took, you remain forever changed
having borne the weight of duty.
Skill Proficiencies: Choose two from Animal Handling,
Athletics, Medicine, or Survival.
Additional Proficiencies: Gain proficiency with a tool and
a vehicle of your choice.
Equipment: A symbol of rank (like a letter, badge, or
identification tags), a mess kit, a pack of playing cards
or a set of dice, a set of common clothes, and a pouch
containing 10 gp.


TALENT
You have received special training or honed natural
capabilities that kept you safe during your service. Choose
a talent from this list to represent your experience: Combat
Casting, Combat Conditioning, or Field Medic.

ADVENTURING MOTIVATION
You know the dangers and demands of an adventurer’s
lifestyle, but consider how your military responsibilities
have altered to accommodate your new path. When you
begin your adventures, consider why your character’s
duties as a soldier ended—or changed—to allow for lessregimented pursuits.

d8 ADVENTURING MOTIVATION
1 After a dishonorable discharge, adventuring is the way I make a living.
2 Adventuring is a way to continue fighting, even though the war is over.
3 Adventuring is a way to keep protecting others, since those I used to protect are gone.
4 Adventuring lets me use the skills I learned without having to give my life to the military.
5 I perform special missions for those I serve when I go adventuring.
6 When I go adventuring, I take justice into my own hands without concern for policy or politics.
7 Adventuring is the return to action I’ve craved since my retirement.
8 Adventuring is a way to keep my skills sharp before I can return to duty.


